Messaging With Kafka Tutorial (#546)
wso2/ballerina-integrator: docs/content/src/learn/tutorials/messaging-integrations/messaging-with-kafka/README.md

This guide walks you through the process of messaging with Apache Kafka using Ballerina language. 

## What you'll build

To understand how you can use Kafka for 'publish-subscribe' messaging, lets consider a real-world use case of a Product Management System. This product management system consists of a product admin portal where the product administrator can update the price for a product. Based on the content of the message sent to the product admin service, it is filtered to different partitions in the Kafka Topic.  

The following figure illustrates the publish-subscribe messaging use-case. 

![messaging_with_kafka](../../../../assets/img/messaging_with_kafka.png "Messaging with Kafka")

<!-- INCLUDE_MD: ../../../../tutorial-prerequisites.md -->

<!-- INCLUDE_MD: ../../../../tutorial-get-the-code.md -->

## Implementation

####1. Create a new Ballerina project named `messaging-with-kafka`.

```bash
$ ballerina new messaging-with-kafka
```

####2. Navigate to the messaging-with-kafka directory and add a new module named `product_management_system` to the project.

```bash
$ ballerina add product_management_system
```

> ####3. Open the project with VS Code. The project structure will be similar to the following.

Reviewer: This displays as a heading so it's better to shorten it and have a description underneath.

Author: Shortened heading

# Messaging with Kakfa

Kafka is a distributed, partitioned, replicated commit log service. It provides the functionality of a publish-subscribe messaging system with a unique design. Kafka mainly operates based on a topic model. A topic is a category or feed name to which records get published. Topics in Kafka are always multi-subscriber.

This guide walks you through the process of messaging with Apache Kafka using Ballerina language. The following figure illustrates the publish-subscribe messaging use-case. 

> ![messaging_with_kafka](/resources/diagram.png "Messaging with Kafka")

Reviewer: Add this under the "What you'll build" section. Also, you need to host the image in this location: https://github.com/wso2/ballerina-integrator/tree/master/docs/content/src/assets/img

Author: Done

   localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 2
```

Here we created a new topic that consists of two partitions with a single replication factor.

* Now we shall build the module. Navigate to the messaging-with-kafka directory and execute the following command.

```bash
$ ballerina build messaging-with-kafka
```

This would create the executables.

* Run the `product_management_system.jar` created in the above step.

* Invoke the `product_admin_service` by sending a valid POST request

```bash
curl -v POST -d \
   '{ "Product": "Carrot","Type": "Vegetable","Price": "100.00"}' \
   "http://localhost:9090/product/updatePrice" -H "Content-Type:application/json"
```

Based on the 'Type' specified in the request, the message is filtered into two partitions. One consumer is subscribed to one partition, which receives products of Type 'Vegetable' while the other receives products of Type 'Fruit'.

The following message will be displayed on the terminal.

```bash
ProductManagementService : Received payload
ProductManagementService : Sending message to Partition 0
ProductConsumerService1 : Product Received
Name : Apple
Price : Fruit

```

> And `{"Status": "Success"}` message is received from the product_admin_service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `{"Status": "Success"}` message is received from the product_admin_service.
```

Author: Done

# Messaging with Kakfa

Kafka is a distributed, partitioned, replicated commit log service. It provides the functionality of a publish-subscribe messaging system with a unique design. Kafka mainly operates based on a topic model. A topic is a category or feed name to which records get published. Topics in Kafka are always multi-subscriber.

This guide walks you through the process of messaging with Apache Kafka using Ballerina language.

> - [Messaging with Kafka](#Messaging-with-Kafka)

Reviewer: Remove the TOC. When we render this in the docs site, we have an automatically generated TOC on the left so we don't need to replicate this.

Author: Done

  - [What you'll build](#What-youll-build)
  - [Prerequisites](#Prerequisites)
  - [Implementation](#Implementation)
    - [Creating the project structure](#Creating-the-project-structure)
    - [Developing the service](#Developing-the-service)
  - [Deployment](#Deployment)
    - [Deploying locally](#Deploying-locally)
    - [Deploying on Docker](#Deploying-on-Docker)
  - [Testing](#Testing)
    - [Output](#Output)

> ## What you'll build

Reviewer: Let's also draw a diagram for this and get it refined by the Marketing team.

Author: Done

> To understand how you can use Kafka for 'publish-subscribe' messaging, lets consider a real-world use case of a Product Management System. This product management system consists of a product admin portal which the product administrator can update the price for a product. Based on the content of the message sent to the product admin service, it is filtered to different partitions in the Kafka Topic.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand how you can use Kafka for 'publish-subscribe' messaging, lets consider a real-world use case of a Product Management System. This product management system consists of a product admin portal where the product administrator can update the price for a product. Based on the content of the message sent to the product admin service, it is filtered to different partitions in the Kafka Topic.  
```

Author: Done

> ## Prerequisites

Author: Done

- [Ballerina Distribution](https://ballerina.io/learn/getting-started/)
- A Text Editor or an IDE

> **Tip**: For a better development experience, install one of the following Ballerina IDE plugins: [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ballerina.ballerina), [IntelliJ IDEA](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9520-ballerina)

- [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/downloads)
  - Download the binary distribution and extract the contents

### Optional Requirements

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/)
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/)

## Implementation

### Creating the project structure

Ballerina is a complete programming language that supports custom project structures. To implement the scenario in this guide, you can use the following package structure:

```bash
messaging-with-kafka
├── Ballerina.toml
└── src
    └── product_management_system
        ├── product_Admin_Service.bal
        ├── consumer1.bal
        ├── consumer2.bal
        └── resources
```

### Developing the service

> Lets get started with the implementation of a Kafka Service called `product_admin_service` which acts as the message publisher. It contains an HTTP Service which is used by a product admin to update the price of a product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets get started with the implementation of a Kafka Service called `product_admin_service`, which acts as the message publisher. It contains an HTTP Service that is used by a product admin to update the price of a product.
```
Using "that" clarifies what you're talking about and is necessary for sentence completion. On the other hand, "which" merely adds additional information. You do not use a comma before "that" and always use a comma before "which."

Author: Done

Let's see how to add the Kafka configurations for a Kafka publisher written in Ballerina language. Refer to the code segment given below.

> ```ballerina

Author: Done

kafka:ProducerConfig producerConfigs = {
    bootstrapServers: "localhost:9092",
    clientId: "kafka-producer",
    acks: "all",
    retryCount: 3
};

kafka:Producer kafkaProducer = new(producerConfigs);
```

> A Kafka producer in Ballerina needs to consist of a `kafka:Producer` object with specifying the required configurations for a Kafka publisher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Kafka producer in Ballerina needs to consist of a `kafka:Producer` object that specifies the required configurations for a Kafka publisher.
```

Author: Done

Let us now see the complete implementation of the `product_admin_service`, which is a Kafka topic publisher. This publisher accepts HTTP requests and routes the serialized message to a partition in the topic based on the content of the recieved payload. In this case it filters for product type.

> #### product_admin_service.bal

Reviewer: Insert code from the source file.

Author: Done

Author: Done

        };

        // Serialize the message
        byte[] serializedMessage = productInfo.toJsonString().toBytes();

        if (productType.toString() == "Fruit") {
            io:println("ProductManagementService : Sending message to Partition 0");
            var sendResult = kafkaProducer->send(serializedMessage, "product-price", partition = 0);
        } else if (productType.toString() == "Vegetable") {
            io:println("ProductManagementService : Sending message to Partition 1");
            var sendResult = kafkaProducer->send(serializedMessage, "product-price", partition = 1);
        }

        response.setJsonPayload({ "Status" : "Success" });
        var responseResult = caller->respond(response);
    }
}
```

Let us consider the consumer services, `consumer1` and `consumer2`

```ballerina
// Kafka Consumer Configuration
kafka:ConsumerConfig consumer1 = {
    bootstrapServers: "localhost:9092",
    groupId: "consumer",
    topics: ["product-price"],
    pollingIntervalInMillis: 1000,
    partitionAssignmentStrategy: "org.apache.kafka.clients.consumer.RoundRobinAssignor"

    listener kafka:Consumer productConsumer1 = new (consumer1);
};
```

> We make use of a partitionAssignmentStrategy to assign the consumer to a particular topic partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We make use of a `partitionAssignmentStrategy` to assign the consumer to a particular topic partition.
```
Use single backticks for such references.

Author: Done

kafka:ConsumerConfig consumer1 = {
    bootstrapServers: "localhost:9092",
    groupId: "consumer",
    topics: ["product-price"],
    pollingIntervalInMillis: 1000,
    partitionAssignmentStrategy: "org.apache.kafka.clients.consumer.RoundRobinAssignor"
};

// Kafka Listener
listener kafka:Consumer productConsumer1 = new (consumer1);

// Service that listens to the particular topic
service productConsumerService1 on productConsumer1 {
    // Trigger whenever a message is added to the subscribed topic
    resource function onMessage(kafka:Consumer productConsumer, kafka:ConsumerRecord[] records) returns error? {
        foreach var entry in records {
            byte[] serializedMessage = entry.value;
            string|error stringMessage = strings:fromBytes(serializedMessage);

            if (stringMessage is string) {
                io:StringReader sr = new (stringMessage);
                json jsonMessage = check sr.readJson();

                io:println("ProductConsumerService1 : Product Received");
                io:println("Name : ", jsonMessage.Name);
                io:println("Price : ", jsonMessage.Price);
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> In the above code, resource function `onMessage` will be triggered whenever a message published to the topic specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above code, resource function `onMessage` is triggered whenever a message is published to the topic specified.
```

Author: Done

## Deployment

> Once you are done with the development, you can deploy the services using any of the methods listed below.

Reviewer: You have only listed one.

Author: I have made the change to one method for now, but I suspect there will be more methods that will be added to this section in the future

### Deploying locally

To deploy locally, navigate to the `product_management_system` folder and execute the following command.

```bash
  $ ballerina build -a
```

> This builds all the necessary bal files which produces a product_management_system.jar file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This builds all the necessary .bal files that produce a product_management_system.jar file.
```

Author: Done

To run the service, navigate to the target/bin folder and run the following command

```bash
  $ java -jar product_management_system.jar
```

## Testing

### Invoking the service

> - First, start the `ZooKeeper` instance with the default configurations by entering the following command in a terminal from `<KAFKA_HOME_DIRECTORY>`.

Reviewer: It might be best to add Zookeeper related information in the prerequisites.

 ```bash
    $ bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh -daemon config/zookeeper.properties
 ```

> (* `-daemon` flag is optional, use this if you want to run kafka server as a daemon) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tip**: `-daemon` flag is optional, use this if you want to run Kafka server as a daemon) 
```
Also tab this line to sync with the bullet point.

Author: Done

  Here we start a zookeeper with default configurations (on `port:2181`).

- Start a single `Kafka broker` instance with the default configurations by entering the following command  in a terminal from `<KAFKA_HOME_DIRECTORY>`.

```bash
   $ bin/kafka-server-start.sh -daemon config/server.properties
```

> (* `-daemon` flag is optional, use this if you want to run kafka server as a daemon) 

Reviewer: Change this to match the similar sentence above. Ensure that Kafka is written in titlecase.

  
  Here we started the Kafka server on `host:localhost` and `port:9092`. Now we have a working Kafka cluster.

> - Create a new topic `product-price` on Kafka cluster by entering the following command in a terminal from `<KAFKA_HOME_DIRECTORY>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a new topic called `product-price` on the Kafka cluster by entering the following command in a terminal from `<KAFKA_HOME_DIRECTORY>`.
```

```bash
   $ bin/kafka-topics.sh --create --topic product-price --zookeeper \
   localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 2
```

Here we created a new topic that consists of two partitions with a single replication factor.

> - Run the `product_management_system.jar` to run all the built services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run the `product_management_system.jar` to run all the built services.
```
Add periods at the end of all sentences in sentence-type bullet lists.

Author: Done

- Invoke the `product_admin_service` by sending a valid POST request

```bash
curl -v POST -d \
   '{ "Product": "Carrot","Type": "Vegetable","Price": "100.00"}' \
   "http://localhost:9090/product/updatePrice" -H "Content-Type:application/json"
```

### Output

> Based on the 'Type' specified in request, the message is filtered into two partitions. One consumer is subscribed to one partition, which receives products of Type 'Vegetable' while the other receives products of Type 'Fruit'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the 'Type' specified in the request, the message is filtered into two partitions. One consumer is subscribed to one partition, which receives products of Type 'Vegetable', while the other receives products of Type 'Fruit'.
```

Author: Done

> The following message will be displayed on the terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following message will be displayed on the terminal.
```

Author: Done

```
ProductManagementService : Received payload
ProductManagementService : Sending message to Partition 0
ProductConsumerService1 : Product Received
Name : Apple
Price : Fruit

```

> And a `{"Status": "Success"}` message is received from the product_admin_service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `{"Status": "Success"}` message is received from the product_admin_service. 
```

Author: Done
